---
title: "Vehicle Number Plate Detection and Encryption in Digital Images Using YOLOv8 and Chaotic-Based Encryption Scheme"
collection: publications
category: conferences
permalink: /publication/2024-05-02-ICEEICT-2024
excerpt: ''
date: 2024-05-23
venue: 'Military Institute of Science and Technology'
# slidesurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/slides1.pdf'
paperurl: 'https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/10534375'
citation: '<b>Khan, Israt Jahan</b>, et al. "Vehicle Number Plate Detection and Encryption in Digital Images Using YOLOv8 and Chaotic-Based Encryption Scheme." 2024 6th International Conference on Electrical Engineering and Information & Communication Technology (ICEEICT). IEEE, 2024.'
---

<b>Abstract:</b>
Information security has become crucial nowadays as it has ensured individual privacy and prevented unauthorized access. Securing data and information has the capability to establish a secure environment and has ensured trust by keeping them confidential and protected in diverse situations. The license plate or number plate information has been considered sensitive data as it contains unique identifiers for individuals' vehicles. Ensuring the security of this data is important to prevent unauthorized access, which could result in privacy violations and potential safety risks for vehicle owners. Our research has introduced an innovative security system for vehicle number plate privacy, featuring a powerful combination of a deep learning model and robust encryption. This system has ensured the secure transmission of information by adding an extra layer of protection to number plate data. Our proposed system has integrated the You Only Look Once version 8 (YOLOv8) for precise car number plate detection and utilized the robust security features of the Chaotic-based Logistic Map encryption process. This powerful combination has not only enhanced the accuracy of car number plate detection but also established a robust framework for efficiently safeguarding sensitive data through the use of chaotic encryption methods. It is an efficient approach where object detection has been combined with secure transmission technologies. It is suitable for real-time applications and traffic surveillance, resolving privacy concerns and emphasizing data security.
